introversion doesn't exist okay
introversion is an excuse and the excuse
is harder to quit than the actual
condition and the excuses don't help
people the excuses only make it worse
because it makes weakness into a
strength it makes a vice into a virtue
it makes stupidity
into a professed form of intelligence
okay so so here's a quotation from
uh marica
i'll just uh i'll just
read this in following i'll copy and
paste it quote the problem with the
world is that the intelligent people are
full of doubts while the stupid ones are
full of confidence okay so merc again
this is a quote from uh charles
burkowski what's your real life
experience of this
this is 2021
you know
this is derailing the cut talk with this
youtube video but i think it's the time
a little bit further
okay so you know do you think that when
you go into a university classroom
and let's say it's a university class
about aristotle and let's say you've got
three types of students in that class
there are people
who are
video game addicts who are interested in
playing video games
getting out of class as quickly as
possible doing as little work as
possible just because they want to go
and play video games and if it's not
video games it'll be something equally
as stupid maybe they want to go to a
nightclub and take mind-altering drugs
and dance all night they have no
they have no positive intellectual
connection to the topic of the course
being taught and no matter what the
course was on they would still be like
that anyway right there are people who
maybe do have some interest in some
other course where there's some other
course they would work hard on but this
particular course they're selling and
resentful about like oh i was just
forced to take this course because my
parents want me to take it or they're
forced to do it because of course
requirements there's some reason why
they're forced to answer and then
there's a third category of people who
really care the people who even see this
as the highlight of their lives and
again i meet middle-aged people in
universities who say wow you know what
my whole life
i've always wanted the opportunity to
study aristotle to read about his
philosophy and talk about it with an
expert and [ __ ]
you know i'm so ready for this course
for me this is the culmination of years
of yearning and pining and imagining i
care about this so much do you mean to
[ __ ] tell me that in that classroom
the most intelligent people are going to
be silent and full of doubts i think you
have no real life experience i don't
think you know what the [ __ ] you're
talking about and i've got to tell you i
think this is true across the board
if you bring together a bunch of
musicians
in a music studio
you know we say oh yeah okay we're going
to work on this album we're going to
record something there will be musicians
in that studio who say wow i've been
waiting my whole life for this
opportunity i've been waiting my whole
life for someone to put a microphone in
front of me and ask me what i think and
ask me what i want to do with the
arrangement and how i want to play this
or you know how how we're going to how
we're going to put this song together
and they have so much to say and they're
so highly motivated right shy
[ __ ] shy some of those people would say
they're shy in some other context sure
and some other comics where they don't
care they don't know what they're doing
but they say hey i've been waiting my
whole life for this opportunity to play
guitar on on a song like this you know
i've really wanted to do and now here i
am in a recording studio and you're in
charge and you're asking me what i think
all of a sudden i'm not shy this really
matters to me and i think in some
objective sense it it really matters
you're highly you think in that room the
best musicians
are people who are shy and sitting in
the corner and feeling sorry for
themselves really
really i'm just using this as two two
examples from from across the board what
people are calling
you know introversion what people are
calling
shyness okay these are people who are
ashamed of themselves
all right
you say you're shy you're not you're
ashamed you're ashamed of yourself
because you didn't read the book before
you came to class you didn't read
aristotle or you did the bare minimum of
reading that book while resenting it
every minute either because what you
really want to be doing is playing video
games or what you really want to be
doing is going to a nightclub and taking
drugs and dancing or just because you
resent the particular course that maybe
in some other context you are a bit of
an intellectual you care about some
other topic but oh i was forced to take
this course because of my parents or
because of the university administration
or something or you have some resentment
where you're not going to do the work
right and even if
in a certain contrived context you boast
about how little work you do which many
university students do they boast about
how little reading they've done how
little effort they've made right
when you come into that classroom and
you sit next to me
and i'm talking to the professor i'm
talking to the students and i'm
charismatic and i'm the center of
attention because i know about the
content and i care
right
okay you're not shy
you're ashamed of yourself you're
sitting in the corner of the room and
i'm gonna be real with you this is 2021.
you're not just dreaming about going
home and playing video games you are
quite likely in the corner room playing
video games while you're in the
classroom you have your mobile phone out
you have your laptop computer you're
playing video games right now
you're shy you're
shy you feel ashamed of yourself
right
because on some level you know that you
should have read the book you should
have tried to understand the book you
should care you should be learning how
to understand the book right now you
should be making a positive effort and
you're not and again i'm not hating on
you but
i talk about the university as an
example well some of you have never been
to university how about the gym a lot of
you go to the gym every day or a couple
times a week okay
okay so you recognize all the people at
your gym right it's all regular people
you see the same people getting it no
you don't
no you don't you recognize the most
intelligent the most attractive the most
self-confident people right and again
they only need to have two out of the
three there could be someone at the gym
who's really ugly but they're
self-confident and intelligent and they
chit-chat with you once a while so you
remember that person you don't have to
be you don't have to be all three you
know what i mean but there are
self-loathing mopey shy people at the
gym there are people at the gym who are
really stupid there are people at your
gym probably who are mentally disabled
who have serious learning disabilities
trust me there are people at the
university even though it's a university
who have serious you know disabilities
that way and some mental disabilities
you know okay
okay and you don't remember them and you
don't talk to them okay and the internet
is their turf because it's the only turf
they have to defend that is part of the
pathos and the tragedy of the internet
is that this is where the stupid and the
ugly and the self-loathing among us take
their revenge against the most
intelligent and most self-confident
people forever and ever and some of
those people who become your enemies
they are the stupidest ugliest people on
earth they're exactly the people you
ignore
every day at work every day at the
coffee shop every day on the university
campus okay i'm gonna just dwell on this
for one moment okay
when you deal with people face to face
you disproportionately deal with people
who have a very high level of
self-confidence because otherwise they
wouldn't step to you they wouldn't say
[ __ ] to you face to face when i am on
university of victoria campus the men
and women who talk to me are the most
self-confident people on the campus they
are the sharpest people like
intellectually they're sharp they may
not be deep they may not be like they
may be incredibly ignorant in crass but
they're sharp they have a certain kind
of alertness or acumen right and they
are
almost without i just noticed i think
without exception they're attractive
people right
and in the same classroom very often
literally hiding in the corner of the
classroom there are ugly
stupid self-loathing people with no
self-confidence and if you don't take
the time to talk to every single person
in the classroom you can do the whole
class you didn't even notice they were
there
you can do a year-long class at
university and someone says oh hey man
how did that class go was great was
great it was great it's great great
great great class great class how many
people were in that class uh about about
15 students oh yeah okay name them uh
you know and you name all oh yeah i
remember this guy and this guy and this
guy maybe you don't remember their names
yeah yeah there was the there was a tall
guy and there was the fat guy who was
always telling jokes there was this guy
you're remembering the most intelligent
most self-confident people those the
people who actually talked in class
those people actually talked to the
professor and those are the people who
came over and talked to you
no one says oh do you remember do you
remember the mopey ugly stupid guy in
the corner
no
oh oh you don't you don't remember no he
never said one word he didn't say one
word to the professor didn't say one
word to me oh well guess what he hates
your guts and he is on your facebook
profile and your instagram profile on
your youtube channel every day for the
rest of your life
it is the people
you don't see
because they make themselves invisible
with their own low self-esteem in real
life in the workplace on the university
campus who come on the internet and make
themselves impossible to ignore those
are the people who won't just open one
fake account they'll open 10 fake
accounts so they can keep sending you
email and those people will start their
own youtube channels just to hate on you
and i am not joking it can literally be
a dude you were you were in class with
okay so i don't want to speak for
melissa but melissa is saying that among
her haters this way people who hate on
her but who actually did know her in
high school university just as with my
example of this old friend of mine who
actually has published some books and
he's traveled around the world led
interesting life in different ways that
in some ways these haters they have had
successful lives right okay now this is
me speaking for myself that was me
paraphrasing
melissa okay right
but this
matters more
period right the reason why they're
jealous is that even if they can't
analyze it or think about it right
this matters more the life of the mind
always
matters more always
hey hey guys who went skiing who went
skiing last night who gives a [ __ ] if
you went skiing nobody gives a [ __ ]
about your schedule nobody okay
you know yeah there are a lot of people
i mean the people hating on melissa a
lot of them have been on a whole lot of
skiing trips
and you know what
reading aristotle matters more
understanding aristotle matters more
being able to come on camera and
actually give a charismatic intelligent
useful like a discussion of aristotle
that's actually useful to people in the
audience you know what that matters more
and it always did and it always will and
that's why they killed socrates and
people live their whole lives in the
shadow of the meaningful life they could
have had that all their lives are
haunted by the specter of the
intellectual achievement they were
capable of but that they never did
pursue
okay and that's why they're gonna hate
you but my point is this when i talk
about this being a kind of invisible
malevolent majority of people around you
they're invisible because you don't see
them they're invisible because they
don't make themselves seen they don't
make themselves hurt and it will never
end so we told really briefly also the
story of people melissa has known since
university maybe in some cases they're
people you've known since high school
too you know and uh
it's just ridiculous sorry
you know if you were a friend of
melissa's in high school or university
why can't you be happy for her why can't
you be happy for her you know why do you
have to like really i mean in this case
it's really hate it's really hatred like
it's not it's not hate in the sense of
like trolling comments or something why
do you have to hate this person who's a
kind of acquaintance of yours but
someone you knew to some extent you know
in high school university why do you
have to to be this way towards you okay
that's why
okay it's it's real resentment it's real
inferiority i said you before for me one
of the reasons why i would make that
book about martin luther king jr even if
it is hated or even if it's hated by 10
times as many people who
positively appreciate it like a thousand
people hate it and a hundred people see
it and appreciate it over the next uh
ten years i feel i have to do that
because nobody else can do it nobody
else can give voice to what i'm gonna
give voice to and i know this is a for
me this is a relatively low effort video
but you guys can imagine there are some
videos that reflect years of work and
years of life experience so there's so
much that goes into it okay that's
another story you know that that too i
feel i have to say that because nobody
else can say it well guess what there
are some really stupid people in your
audience there are stupid ugly people
who have no self-confidence who are
sitting watching that video feeling that
they could never do this themselves they
could never say this themselves they
could never read the book or if they do
read the book they could never
understand it in this level analyzing
this level get this lecture on this
level i would not even call this
jealousy i would not even call this envy
i think neither one of those is accurate
all right this is about inferiority and
having a punitive attitude of people
going out and and seeking uh revenge
okay so i'm coming back to some earlier
comments made by uh vanima so by the way
i don't know if uh vanima is is male or
female it's a feminine ending on the
name so i assume this is a female person
um
so
okay
venom i think you made some typos here
so you said
they can't contribute
if they don't like others
doesn't mean they're stupid
so i think you have
another comment in here
where you're saying that uh i'm sorry
i'm sorry if i'm misattributing this to
you someone else said well what about
people who are just actually
uh introverted
what you're doing uh vanima i think
there's one other person who
understandably was a bit upset by my
thoughts oh yeah so nacho no big deal
but nacho said some people are just
uh introverted being able
to read a book
and come into a classroom
and talk about it with other people
right
okay
you think that's something different
from intelligence
right
and
not being able being unable
to read a book and then come into the
classroom and discuss it with others and
maybe learn from your own mistakes and
maybe learn from theirs and debate and
discuss with being unable to do that you
think that's something other
than stupidity
okay
but you're wrong that is
intelligence
and that is why people will hate you
if you're good at youtube that's why
people will hate you if you're good at
doing book reviews or any other kind of
really meaningful and substantive
broadcasting on youtube whether it's
about politics or history frankly it
could be about architecture it could be
anything okay because if you're good at
this
they feel
that you are better than them okay and
they're right
to really have jealousy based on on
grades you know a number on a piece of
paper okay if that i'm not saying it
doesn't exist okay that's shallow that's
limited because that's jealousy about
something you did
okay
what we're talking about here is a
feeling of inferiority that is really on
a deep level based on who you are you
know what i mean the fact that you are
that shy
self-hating person and nobody knows your
name
and it's not just one class it's not
just when you're in class with me
every single class you go to at the
university you're ignored in all of them
and there's some other guy in that class
who is the isil mazzard of that subject
but guess what for those people who make
themselves invisible in real life you
can make up a [ __ ] excuse and call it
introversion okay introversion doesn't
exist okay introversion is an excuse and
the excuse is harder to quit than the
actual condition okay these are people
who go from one classroom to the next
and everywhere they go
they're stupid and lacking in
self-confidence and they're invisible
and they make themselves invisible they
mope from one classroom to the next and
they mope and once they're finished
university they mope from one theater of
life to the next forever and ever and
they get to go home and play video games
and go on the internet and leave hate
comments and so on and i'm saying this
literally even if they're people who
knew you face to face you know this this
is this phenomenon that you'll see you
know again and again okay now i know i
know you may
feel brendan brendan says to the
audience quote i feel attacked lol
okay um
you know
uh it may be reassuring for you as a
student to tell yourself oh those silent
sulky kids or middle-aged adults
whatever they are those silent sulky
students who are sitting off in the in
the corner um maybe they're the most
brilliant of us all
and the professor at the front of the
classroom he may want to
delude himself this way also he might
think well the students who are talking
are kind of dumb but there are some
silence dudes maybe i can kid myself
into thinking they're having really
profound thoughts okay no all right um
you know it's okay so nacho is backing
up i totally understand your nacho is
saying quote what about introverted
folks who are not unintelligent but just
shy to speak to others okay so nacho i
don't think these are two separate
things okay i don't you know i'm gonna
be real with you i don't even think
learning and teaching are two separate
things and what am i doing in that book
review video right i'm both learning and
teaching at the same time when you come
into that university classroom and
you've read the book and you're you know
you want to learn from others and you
want to share what you got out of
reading the book the same book everyone
else in that classroom uh you know read
you know no
what you are calling shyness i already
have a video telling you that shyness
doesn't exist um but no i don't think
shyness exists i don't think
introversion exists i think these are i
think these are excuses and the excuses
don't help people the excuses only make
it worse because it makes weakness into
a strength it makes a vice into a virtue
and it makes stupidity
uh into a professed form of intelligence
you know no your problem is that you're
stupid your problem is that you're
ashamed of yourself your problem is that
you don't have anything intelligent to
say about the book because if you did
you'd say it and your shyness what you
call shyness would be irrelevant right
if you felt i mean look sorry come back
to the example that started this all if
you really felt you had something
important to say
about the death of dr martin luther king
jr and nobody else is ever going to say
it
shyness is obviously irrelevant in that
in that context if you know someone who
says that they've read this book about
who killed dr martin luther king jr
and they think that it contains really
important facts that they want to share
with the public and they want to discuss
with people
but they're shy
if someone said that to you someone's in
the same position i was after reading
this book the most useful thing you
could say to them is you're not shy
you have nothing to say
oh i'm wrong oh i'm sorry it proved me
wrong oh you have something to say you
have something that's really important
for the whole world to hear you have
said it's really important for other
people to hear us that's really
important for your own co-workers to
hear
your own university professors to hear
for anyone in the public oh oh really oh
are you sure the problem is that you're
shy probably if they step up to the
challenge if they just film themselves
trying to say what it was they thought
was so important and then watching the
video back they're going to realize oh
he's right i didn't have anything
intelligent to say i imagined i had
something to tell you to say but now
that i'm watching my own recording i'm
forced to confront the reality of my own
stupidity i'm forced to see how little i
have to say and how bad i am at saying
it which i'm sure for many people could
be a could be a growing experience and
look guys i wasn't born smart
you know i really wasn't i made myself
this way i wasn't born wise i was born
ignorant and stupid all of us were and
there are still
innumerable topics that i am
ignorant of and that if i spoke on them
i would might say something stupid you
know
um
you know i don't claim to be an expert
in in all things
uh whether or not i claim to be an
expert in anything is actually debatable
and look sorry so this has been a big
digression
but obviously what we do here on youtube
is a much better example it's a much
better crucible for all these things
than any university classroom right
what actually goes on in universal
classroom has much less to do about
really developing your own ideas and
changing the world than we do youtube
like what what i've just described from
an idealized university classroom it's
much more true
of what people do here on youtube
youtube is is it's better than any
university classroom and honestly not
just in this way in all ways
um
and no it is not the case that the
intelligent people are
are shy
uh nor that they're introverts nor that
they're you know in this
whatever mythology people want to make
up to um
to glorify this kind of self-hating
self-advocating behavior you know what i
see there is a litany of excuses and i
think that
you know
i think the excuses hurt people rather
than help them melissa is raising the
question to what extent is this innate
talent and what extent is it an effort
made here and now and to what extent is
the the accumulation of hard work over
many years
and um
right so like it's a lot easier to be
quiet in class even though right yeah
it's easier to play video games it's
easier to learn nothing yeah sure right
yeah if you're working hard right then
you're more likely to get more out of it
number one
there's there's a lot of suffering
involved too
you suffer and really making that from
really striving and really yeah and
failing we're talking a lot about
failure and this is supposed to be a
video about about success right yeah
right
in classes if you're actually
reading texts it's worth it just like
it's it's worth it just to become
a more intelligent person right
even if there isn't any level of success
that can come from this other than a
grade
right right but but but not gym class
maybe you see what i'm saying but right
but then it depends on how meaningful
the class is
that's that's ultimate that's the great
thing about youtube it's this malleable
art form you could
just make youtube videos about how to
have a bigger bum how to have a bigger
bomb by doing this exercise at the gym
etc and
you know i'm not that's not zero
meaningful on a scale of one to ten it's
more than zero you know there's some
level of meaning there but sure again
unlike a university classroom even an
idealized university classroom youtube
can be about anything and whatever you
make it about that becomes your life
so you know that's a powerful thing to
say if you start doing youtube videos
about restaurant reviews right
if this is successful it takes over your
life are you pleased with that if you
start doing youtube videos about
aristotle and political philosophy
referring back to ancient greece you
know this becomes your life and and you
become a different person through it
what an amazing tool what an amazing
tool to transform who you are right and
to meet a small number of other
like-minded people maybe five
maybe 50 you don't know you know so no
that's that's an amazing power in your
hands it's it's much better than
university and uh
in all those ways i can remember what a
different character i was in my first
year of university i can remember what a
different character i was in high school
and you know i'll never forgive them for
it but my parents wanted me to drop out
of university in my in my first year
because it would have been easier for
them
you know now what would my whole life
have been like how would i have turned
out and what would my level of education
be and so on if i had if i dropped out
of university it was a very
heartbreaking difficult you know
realization to deal with what was going
on in my own family and education career
and things at that at that stage
well i have a lot of genetically similar
people in my family i have a lot of half
brothers who have absolutely zero
intellectual character now we're not
twins
you know we're not genetically identical
but they're guys born with a lot of the
same apparatus i was born with you know
mentally and physically they're similar
to me in in obvious ways and
i can see the paths they took and i
could see it's possible
it's possible to be born with you know
approximately my genetic code and
accomplish absolutely nothing you know
intellectually to develop to not develop
in this way whatsoever
so it's not hard for me to imagine you
know the ex
it's not hard for me to visualize the
extent to which who i am today is really
the product of hard work and of
conscious decisions i've made and
sacrifice have made and suffering i've
gone through you know what i mean
so yeah very few of my positive traits
in that sense are innate okay so we had
a couple people raise the possibility
this is a digression from top of the
video but maybe it matters more maybe it
matters more because of because we're
talking about youtube
so james says quote i can talk to
friends about intellectual topics at
length my family and whatnot but in
front of a big audience i struggle a lot
it's not really due to the subject just
the atmosphere okay james why
why do you think that is you [ __ ]
what the [ __ ] do you think is wrong with
you that you can talk about intellectual
topics as long as there's no risk
as long as there are no consequences
as long as it can't possibly change
anything in the world for better or
worse as long as nobody is judging you
and they'll think about what i went
through and what i still go through
just to have the opportunity to
influence my fellow vegans in the vegan
movement politically just to try to
influence canadian politics on first
nations issues which i'm also hated for
it's just by a smaller number of viewers
my political views on a huge range of
topics are massively unpopular but
believe it or not even just me stepping
forward and saying hey you know what it
would be really meaningful if white
people started learning languages like
korean ojibwe if instead of genocide we
actually were reviving these languages
like for the future these are incredibly
unpopular police
what would you think of me james if i
told you that i had no problem talking
about these intellectual topics as long
as i was in the the comfortable small
circle of my own family
that's what you said
my family comma what not
oh oh gee you mean you can only talk
about politics when you're only talking
about it with people who either already
agree with you or where there are no
consequences and no risk really what
kind of person are you
or are you shy
oh oh
oh does that explain it oh is that your
excuse is that what you're with i think
you're a [ __ ] coward james
i think you've adopted a set of excuses
that are making your life worse every
day
okay so vanima you seem to also be part
of team shy
okay oh i'm sorry what was the point
of talking about intellectual topics
as you as you put it
okay um
was it only to talk to people who won't
judge you who already agree with you who
are already your friends and supporters
or or were you actually trying to change
the world or were you trying to learn
something are you trying to teach
something as they say especially with
youtube you can see the dynamism of this
that in many ways learning and teaching
become one and the same you know you
take the time to read that book and talk
about it on youtube and maybe you're
wrong about a bunch of things and you
learn and you make another youtube video
that's a lot more dynamic than than
university courses what's this
yeah i don't want to get on topic too
much but i think it relates to what you
were saying earlier about
music if you want to play music what
does it say of you if you are only
comfortable playing music in front of
your friends and family yeah or just you
know just your relatives because right
the stakes are so much higher right if
you're performing right in front of a
live audience of 200 people 300 people
but if you are only comfortable with the
safety of your own home
uh that does show what your capabilities
are what you're comfortable with right
right
right well okay i think music is an
interesting example
um
what if someone told you james that they
can play the guitar really really well
but only in front of their own family
not in front of an audience and they
it's their own compositions they write
songs they write original songs they say
well you know i actually they create
their own songs and they perform them
but only in front of their own family
again no risk
no stakes
no con no fear of consequences no fear
of judgment no fear of the audience is
gonna laugh at you right
okay so i don't think they're shy okay i
think they're ashamed of themselves i
think on some level they know
their work is crap it has nothing to
contribute to okay but what if that same
person what if one day they come up with
a song
and they say i believe in this song
this song really matters
this song could be a hit
this song could change the world or even
if you don't think it could be a hit you
think this song could be really
meaningful to
500 people if only 500 people hear it on
the internet all of a sudden you're not
shy anymore
because you actually think the song you
have to sing is worth something
it's worth sharing it's worth taking
that risk you see what i'm saying
so now you may not perceive that as
self-confidence
right instead it's that oh i'm confident
in the song right
it's your song it's your performance
it's your composition it is
self-confidence what a lot of people
want is to not get out of their comfort
zone in any way to not have any risk
you know to not be judged and so on and
so forth but then nevertheless also have
wealth and fame and of course that's
what they imagine about people like
trisha paytas right but it's not true
trisha paytas has very little
intellectual substance to share but she
shares it
she comes out and shares and she comes
out and weeps
and
you know she breaks down weeping on
camera talking about these most personal
intimate things i've seen incredibly few
of her videos but i heard her basically
talking about giving a video where she
talked about being a stripper and
prostituting herself and you know really
deeply personal thing i mean no but it's
right okay
okay trisha paytas
is not shy at that time when she made
those videos she felt that that was
something really meaningful for people
to hear and
you know she's right you know i mean i
do think i do think i'm thinking way
back when she wasn't that famous yet you
know i think she was really aware there
were people in the audience who would
relate to it and it would be it would be
meaningful for for them you know
remember she made a video just talking
about the fact that she had an iranian
boyfriend a persian boyfriend and what
that's like and she was making that
video thinking this is going to be
listened to by some other white women
who know what it's like to date persian
guys like you know it's just saying it
may not be on the same level
but no there's there's a commitment
there so look so not sure if i i'm not
being contrary nacho says quote what if
they are shy because they're ashamed of
themselves but not for being stupid but
for being socially awkward some people
stutter and mumble when they have to
interact with us right
but if you're the musician who actually
believes in the song so again it's not
right
my claim is that this really is
self-confidence you're confident that
this song needs to be sung and needs to
be put in the charts needs to be shared
on the internet right so therefore you
have
a kind of self-confidence no matter how
much stuttering no matter how much
mumbling no matter how awkward
you are gonna commit to
getting out and promoting that song okay
if you are stuttering and mumbling or
you have
let's just say you're blind let's just
say you are literally blind so when you
make a youtube video you can't really
make expressions and eye contact with
the camera the same way someone who sees
can but you have done this reading you
have this message to share so i just did
a video again sorry i'm just bringing
back my own thing i have this point to
make about the economic fiction that
bernie sanders and alexandria cortez
rely on so i really think i have
something important to say to you and
the video is a failure only 278 people
have seen it i feel this is something
really important i'm aware if i don't
say it nobody else is going to say it
etc right this is on me i've got to
share that message with you nobody else
is going to do it my friend jeff isn't
going to do it for me so i am going to
come on camera even if i'm blind even if
i can't make eye contact with the
audience this way because i have a
disability you know i don't know if
you've seen blind people you know they
they can they know how to sit up right
and talk but it's not the same as the
on-camera performance of a sighted
person especially if they're born blind
you know say okay i have this really
important thing to say about economics
and i want to share with the audience
and i hope you will share the link so
that the word gets out here because this
really matters so the same way the
musician can have confidence in the song
the youtuber can have confidence in that
message and then yes you [ __ ] put up
with it and you ask your audience to put
up with it you say look i'm sorry i have
a disability maybe it's stuttering maybe
it's blindness but this is so important
this is so meaningful to me i have to
share with you now the other example um
you know i've used before and i'll use
it again is my video about the central
park five so that video still has only
two thousand eight hundred views okay as
far as i'm concerned this should have a
million views i'm certain i've lost
subscribers and lost supporters it's
just so politically shocking most of my
audiences left when you're left of
center they're leftist vegans it's it's
disturbing okay like there were a lot of
things it was disturbing for me too
doing the research and realizing this
okay
guess what
that's that's such an important message
and the research i did it's so important
for me to share this with you right
i have confidence in the message the
singer has confidence in the song right
so therefore i have self-confidence
right and maybe i'm fat and maybe i'm
ugly maybe i have a disability that
makes it more difficult maybe i stutter
right and that's not the point not the
question right you've still gotta you
still gotta
get get that message out there and
youtube is so much less work than
writing a book
so i haven't mentioned this but i've
been sick for at least the past three
days i think four or five days anyway
maybe four four days something like that
i've actually been really sick i've had
a fever and i've been sleeping badly
okay i wanted to work on my book in the
last four or five days and i didn't
because i was sick so just mention i'm
able to make this youtube video right
now right the level of effort to write a
book to publish in in print form this
same kind of message it really is much
much more work than making a youtube
video so if you stutter now here's the
other funny thing maybe making youtube
videos can actually help you improve
your study right maybe you can get
better at speaking through making
youtube videos you know so there is
actually some good in that but even if
not you know this is so much easier than
writing a book publishing a book or
getting your message out through through
to written articles so uh nacho so this
is off topic but in some ways on top
nacho is um
saying quote story off topic but you
mentioned central park five made me
think i really can't believe a dead body
was found in a car rented by brianna
taylor and it was never reported by the
media close quote yes so i did have
several videos talking about the brianna
taylor case that's another great example
i mean you know
um
[Music]
you know if you know about this kind of
thing and you care about it
what's stopping you from making a
youtube video so brianna taylor it's
already much forgotten but she was made
into a hero by the mainstream press and
to a remarkable extent just a little bit
of research revealed the extent to which
she was a villain
including that dead body in her car and
by the way i have heard the police
recording
of a police officer who just from the
the audio it seemed to be a black female
police officer like from the voice
sounded like an african-american a woman
police officer uh showing up in her
house and confronting her about that and
talking to her about it i mean i've
heard that i know certain things about
it you know so
what are you going to say if you really
care about these things do you really
care about anything what are you going
to say oh well i'm only comfortable
talking about that with members of my
own family
you know what does that say about you
either you don't believe in yourself
either you don't have self-confidence or
you don't believe in the song you don't
believe in the story you have to tell
you don't believe in the mission you
know the message you have to deliver you
don't believe in the mission i guess
it's a good enough way to to say it
right
um
you know but there's a kind of
self-loathing that would prevent you
from uh from sharing that not show i
hope you get the point i'm not being
hostile to you here um
yes some people stutter but being shy is
a lie being an introvert is an excuse
and it hurts the people who believe in
it hurts the people who who make it and
and i also i've had to struggle with
this so i'd say i'll post here the link
here is the link to um the central park
five video um
you know
there are things that are hard for me to
say and they're things that alienate my
audience and are bad for my youtube
career and i have to say them that's not
the same as dealing with a stutter or
being blind or what have you but no if
you if you really see the value in this
art form in this message right that is
it's going to totally eclipse
those those disadvantages and by the way
i don't think this is just prescriptive
what i'm saying it's not just
prescriptive it's also descriptive i
think that's what you see all over the
internet you know whether people are
right or wrong
people feel they have something so
important to share that they are going
to share it anyway even if it means that
they have to admit on camera that they
they used to be a prostitute they talk
about their history of being a
prostitute even if and i'm sorry but
having a stutter is hard admitting on
youtube in a video your own parents are
going to see that you used to be a
prostitute that's harder okay and
everyone's willing to do it because it's
so important i mean
really what we're doing here it's so
important it's so meaningful it's so
rewarding for you as a creative artist
or intellectual and it's it's so
meaningful for the audience you know
you've got something to share and if
just a few hundred other women see it
who've been going through the same
things you're going through or they're
thinking about doing it so i'll give you
a real brief example um
i actually do remember this youtube
channel there was a youtube channel and
she is a very very skinny woman she's
vegan she but she's very slender and
when i first discovered her youtube
channel the vast majority of her views
were her videos talking about getting
breast enlargement surgery getting
silicone breast implants inserted and
she was giving advice especially for
women who like her were very petite very
small and very lean because the type of
surgery you get is different otherwise i
probably wouldn't know about this but
it's in some ways it's obvious if you're
kind of a
the type of surgery relates to your body
type or whatever right so the vast
majority of her fame the vast majority
of reviews were people coming to see
these videos
uh and and
the people she was interacting with in
our audience were women interested in
getting the same surgery or women who
already had one surgery and we're
getting we're getting another surgery
right okay there was a turning point in
her channel where she deleted all those
videos she lost all those views and then
she started making youtube videos
talking about the fact that it was a
mistake
that she regrets it and that she was
going to get surgery to remove the
breast implants and then she talked
about the surgery she talked about
yeah stuttering's hard
you know having a visual disability
being it's hard you know what's really
hard
you know coming on camera and dealing
with that it's it's hard okay that's
hard you know what's hard coming on
camera and directly confronting
neo-nazis i've done it coming on camera
and directly confronting communists i've
done it okay you have stutter [ __ ] you
okay
[ __ ] you and [ __ ] your stutter okay i
have come on camera and talked about
losing my virginity i have come on
camera and talked about the fact that my
own parents were communists and i had a
really terrible childhood growing up
with these crazy communist parents and
i've i've talked about that the variety
of contacts but including where i'm
really reaching out to people in the
audience and saying hey some of you grew
up with these problems too and videos
including interviews where i was
reaching out to people and their
communists now
they're people who've joined the
communist religion frankly and where i'm
saying look
i have a perspective i want to share
with you because i grew up with this
stuff my parents wanted me to be a
communist but i rejected their beliefs
like i i know
i can relate to your situation that's
hard okay that's hard and what
nobody nobody asks me if i'm shy nobody
feels sorry for me it must i must be shy
it must be hard for me to talk about
losing my virginity must be hard for me
to talk about my relationship with my
own parents my parents political
ideology you know it must be hard for me
to take that
and then you know use it to try to
confront people and convert people
frankly who are communists and who are
neo-nazis on the internet and try to
make the world a better place and to try
to politically educate others
at the same time that i'm politically
educating myself i'm doing the reading
i'm doing the learning now and in the
last five years on this youtube channel
the last eight years
you know i'm learning i've learned so
much since i started this youtube
channel i'm challenging myself to grow
you see what i'm saying
so you know i'm just keeping it real
with you you know so both you several
other people did as well but i think
it's mostly nacho
i get what you're what you're raising is
real okay but in that classroom using
the university classroom as an example
let me come back to you
in that university classroom some people
appreciate
this is the opportunity of a lifetime
you can sit down and learn the
philosophy of aristotle or you can learn
nothing you can squander it and guess
what i used to live in vienchan the
capital city of laos
okay
and i said to every other white english
speaking person there i met don't you
realize being here now that this is the
opportunity of a lifetime
i don't know maybe i was the only person
who got it like maybe nobody else
realized what an opportunity it was to
be in that country at that time as that
political situation was involving to be
able to learn what we were learning do
what we're doing and even participate in
government the way i was participating
in government was inside the government
there and to meet those people and talk
to those people and learn the language
you know it was there was so much that i
was getting out of it right okay well
guess what
what we're doing here on youtube it is a
richer experience it is a more
meaningful experience than going to
university and sitting in that classroom
it is a richer experience it is a more
enriching experience i might say than
buying an airplane ticket to laos and
moping around vienchan the capital city
of laos and meeting other people who
work in humanitarian work in the
government i'm being real i'm being real
you know and and you can go back and
watch your own videos and learn from
your own mistakes anytime i mean the
experiences i had in vien chen laos
they're they're intangible and
irretrievable in a very very different
way because i wasn't youtubing during
that period of my life you know what i
mean in some ways i carry them with me
forever but in some ways they're lost
forever and i wasn't able to share them
with you you know or anyone else in the
audience or my own daughter or my own
grandchildren right that's gone forever
in a way that that youtube that youtube
isn't you know what i mean so you know
when people sit down in that classroom
some of them recognize this is a
positive opportunity and they try to get
the most out of it no matter how stupid
they are right and some people have an
excuse quote great points about shyness
and shame but some shyness is caused by
trauma and childhood and adolescence in
those cases they need encouragement not
just attacks um
uh okay but i mean i think i've just
addressed this you know i think i've
just addressed this in the last 10 15
minutes you know okay you know you've
you've been through trauma in your
childhood okay so you want to feel sorry
for yourself you want me to feel sorry
for you what's what's your point you
know having a stutter is hard being born
blind is hard it's a lot harder than
having the memory of of childhood uh
trauma or adolescent trauma you know
what i mean okay and now let's talk
about filmmaking okay so do you want to
create something you want to create a
short film on the internet that can
influence hundreds of people's lives
possibly millions of people's lives you
know you want to do this you have this
message you have this song you want to
sing that's worthwhile okay what do you
want to do or do you want to take this
childhood trauma the same way that
someone with a stutter might take their
disability or the same way somebody's
blind might take this disability and
manufacture it into an excuse
for what it is you're not going to do
you know right here right now you might
not have seen my my videos about therapy
and uh psychiatry generally but you know
um
you know my catchphrase on that is you
know it's very easy to tell people uh
get professional help but the reality is
there is no professional help and i i
don't believe in this model of uh
therapy that you're alluding to here i
don't believe there is any university
degree that helps you to help people in
the way that you're that you're
describing okay so great i got a great
question from javier happy i hope you're
still here sorry i know you wrote i
don't know how long ago you wrote this
uh you wrote this
um
question so javier asks is there um a
video where you've approached the topic
without
feeling comfortable in your own
knowledge like where i've challenged
myself and i've been uncomfortable
making the video and the answer is yes
all the time
all the time even in the first year of
the youtube channel i challenge myself
that way you know
and and some of them
are not that great videos in the first
year of the channel definitely if i went
back and watched those videos in the
first year i think probably a lot of
them i'd wanna i'd wanted to lead or
unless the things that didn't really
didn't really work out that well but yes
and no no javier i don't know if you
were here i have mentioned videos that
were uncomfortable for me
in this discussion i just i mentioned
the one about the central park five and
i gave the link to that i have already
mentioned examples that but javier i can
give you a great example
and that was the video you asked me to
make you uh sent me an email or a
message on patreon you wrote to me
asking me about the history of the
education system in chile and the
politics of chile at that time so i'm
sorry i'm forgetting exactly what your
question was but whatever your question
was about the politics of chile my
answer was to deal with the history of
the education system in chile it was a
total 100 percent challenge to me i have
absolutely no formal or informal
education in the the history of chilean
politics or even south american politics
i mean i've made a number of videos
talking about you know uh
the different kinds of academic
background i have including lately i was
talking about uh the middle east the
arab world and so on i had no so it was
a huge challenge for me and i made that
video not despite my own ignorance but
because of my own ignorance i was like
okay and dude so so javier you know
heavy has read many chapters of my book
the book isn't published yet dude there
are so many chapters of the book that
were that were written exactly that way
where it's like look i'm i'm not
comfortable with this let's say i write
i write one chapter it doesn't matter
chapter seven eight or nine but some
specifically i read the chapters like
okay in that chapter i'm aware like i'm
sitting here as the author i only dealt
with the aspects of the problem that i
already have expertise in that i'm
already comfortable with
um but now i'm going to challenge myself
to write the next chapter it's okay
let's just going to sneeze sneezing's on
now i'm going to challenge myself to
write the next chapter and deal with the
other side of it the other aspect
where i'm i'm out to see i'm outside of
my area of expertise where i'm not
comfortable or i'm uncomfortable you
know so i do that in youtube videos to
do that my writing and yeah by the way
those chapters of the book they took a
lot of research
i had to go out i had to go and do a lot
of reading
as part of that obviously i couldn't
just speak off off the top of my head
and that video i made for you javier i'm
sorry if someone i assume this is the
same javier um we don't have that many
viewers name have you but you know um
[Music]
that i did a lot of research for that
too it was many hours of work so no so i
do that i do that all the time well
let's be real even emotional videos even
videos that are just talking about my
life i have made videos just talking
about violence and there are chapters of
the book talking about violence
political violence and revolution where
i am intentionally challenging myself to
deal with the stuff i'm really
uncomfortable with to deal with the
stuff that's dangerous
for me there's an element of risk in
making youtube videos there's an element
of risk in writing a book
and i think there's an element of risk
with radical honesty with any time you
put yourself in the position of keeping
it all the way real and reasoning things
through to their ultimate consequences
where you challenge them because it's
really easy to write a paragraph in the
book saying oh well of course uh
i am opposed to
political violence of course i'm opposed
to violence and politics okay but where
you challenge yourself to think it all
the way through and to think through the
examples and scenarios where it's like
oh well it's easy for me to say i'm
opposed to violence oh but but now let's
really think through you know let's
really think through let's really really
challenge yourself to deal with the
problem and all its complexity and prove
yourself to be a hypocrite and you know
drag out the contradictions in your own
in your own philosophy so no uh i said
before you know i talked about this
youtube channel it doesn't exist anymore
where the catchphrase was get upset but
you know i could say about this too
write you know get uncomfortable be
committed enough whether it's youtube or
writing a book to to to really get
uncomfortable to go into those areas so
yeah i do that quite intentionally all
the time i want to deal with my own
hypocrisy or prove myself to be a
hypocrite and really you know with
radical honesty reason at uh reason all
the way through right great great quote
from uh brendan williams brennan
williams is quoting seneca i remember
reading that in seneca i think he says
some meaningful things immediately
before and after or two we suffer more
in imagination than in reality right and
that's indeed why there's so much
suffering here on here on youtube that
can be translated in slightly different
ways you know the philosopher arthur
schopenhauer has the example
i i experienced this myself as a child
of a child who was running around
playing and scrapes his knee
and his bleeding from his knee
but doesn't feel any pain at all
until an adult walks over and pays
attention to the kid's needs oh you poor
deer look you're bleeding from the knee
you know you scraped up your knee and
then the child looks at his own knee and
feels sorry for himself and starts
crying basically because the adult has
prompted the child they ought to feel
bad they ought to be suffering sort of
thing you know now this is an incredibly
simplistic
example but yes you know
a man suffers
not in what he feels but what he knows
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice